# FlexApplication Excutable Format (Version 0x00)

This document describes the most recent version (FlexAssembler Compiler Version RC2) structure of a FlexApplication Binary Executable file.

The FlexASM Compiler builds binaries in a very special and unique format which aims to be very simple and fast to parse.

The FlexApplication Executable Binary consists of a very small header followed by multiple sections responsible for static memory allocations and code execution.

## Header

The header gives the operating system / virtual machine informations about the executable file. As of this version only the section sizes are specifed but in the future it will contain resources aswell as entries to shared code.

#### FileType Information

To specify a FlexApplication Binary it is required to add 5 bytes to the beginning of the file. The first 3 bytes consist of the ASCII chars ``FAE`` which stands for "FlexApplication Executable" which are followed by two zero-bytes ``0x00 0x00``, where the second zero-byte stands for the FlexApplication Executable format version. 

#### Section Informations

After the FileType Information the Header contains informations about its sections. As of this version only the sizes are specified as four bytes each.

#### Example Header
 ``0x46 0x41 0x45 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x12 0x00 0x00 0x00 0xFA``

## Data Section

The Data Section contains all static memory declarations for this specific binary file. It is almost built like the text section but has no sub-sections and different parameters.

Example:``
0x30 0x00 0x00 0x00 0xFF 
0x31 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x02 0x04 0x20
``

This example reserves 255 uninitialized bytes and defines 2 bytes. (`0x4` and `0x20`)

## Text Section
## Backwards Compatibility
Unfortunately the version which is described here is not directly compatible with the old executable format generated by the old FlexASM Compiler because there was only the "Text Section" and nothing else. However if you decide to pass up on using static memory allocation you can easily remove the "Header"- and "Data Section" to get an executable file for older versions. This will work most of the times reliably as the instruction set will not change.
